

Is a Career in Tech Recession-Proof?
Aug 12, 2022 | Cloud Administration, Data Science, Featured, Full Stack Web Development







Given the current economic climate, many economists are considering the U.S. to be entering a recession. This can cause confusion, fear, and uncertainty, especially as it pertains to job security.
To ease some of those feelings, below you’ll find some careers in tech that tend to hold up better than others amid a recession. In the event of a recession, companies will likely shift to digital strategies, making these careers in tech valuable and highly coveted.
 


Programmer/Developer
No matter the programming language you’ve mastered, having the knowledge alone makes you extremely valuable. The coding skills you possess as a programmer or developer are in-demand for companies looking to build or enhance their websites, and enhance their consumer experience. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, jobs in software development are expected to grow 22% by 2030. This is much faster than the average career.

 


Cloud Administrator
More businesses are transitioning to cloud servers and this increase sparks the need for cloud administrators to maintain and update the cloud infrastructure. Amid a recession, it is likely that efforts regarding security will be heightened as company strategies shift digitally, and managing a more secure server will be the responsibility of the cloud administrator.

 


Data Analyst
During a recession, the need to preserve and monitor data, as well as use data to make predictions to drive a business’ initiatives will be heightened. Data analysts would be relied on heavily to study the data presented and interpret it to solve any current or future problems.

The three positions mentioned above can all be obtained after you complete one of our bootcamps, and take as little as 15 to 20 weeks to complete. Upon successful completion, if you do not land a job in-field within 6 months of graduating from a Codeup program, we will refund your paid tuition back to you.*
 
Codeup Programs
Codeup is a Texas-based career accelerator, built to help you transition to a career in tech seamlessly, and be well-equipped to succeed in your new role. We offer three different programs: Full-Stack Web Development, Cloud Administration, and Data Science. You can learn more about each of them here or by requesting more information on any that may interest you.
If you have any hesitation about changing your career, or about any of our programs please reach out to us. We would love to help you find the program that best suits your needs and interests. Give us a call today at (210) 802- 7289.
*See tuition refund details and specifications here.



 




